Sizing for each flex item is worked out on the basis of a priority list.

*Content width < Width < flex-basis < min-width/max-width

`max-width` looks at the longest possible line of text.

`min-width` looks at the longest possible word.

## `width`

We can set the width of the flex item like this:

```css
.flex-item {
	width: 100px;
}
```

Here,
- The CSS rule of `width: 100px;` will be respected until we have enough space in the overall container.
- Otherwise, it will ignore the rule and set the size to the longest possible word.

## `flex-basis`

```css
.flex-item {
	width: 100px; <!-- No point in setting this because it will be ignored -->
	flex-basis: 200px;
}
```

Here,
- In the presence of the `flex-basis` the `width` property will be ignored.

## `min-width/max-width`

```css
.flex-item {
	flex-basis: 200px; 
	max-width: 100px;
}
```

Here,
- In the presence of `max-width`, the one with the lower value would used to assign size for the flex elements.
- `max-width` determines the growth potential of each flex item.
- `min-width` determine the shrink potential of each flex item
-  In the presence of `min-width`, if the `min-width` is larger then the `flex-basis` then it will respect that CSS rule.

## Grow and Shrink

To turn off the `flex-grow` property set `flex-grow: 0` and to turn off the `flex-shrink` property set `flex-shrink: 0`.

To turn on the `flex-grow` or the `flex-shrink` property, simply set their values to 1.

```css
flex.item {
	flex-basis: 100px;
	flex-grow: 1;
	flex-shrink: 0;
}
```

Here,
- `flex-grow` is turned on and `flex-shrink` is turned off.
- Since the `flex-grow` property is set to on, the flex items are allowed to grow and since there is plenty of space to grow, there’s way more than 400px to fit out four items, then it’s going to increase the width of each of these items until the entire width of the container is filled by each of our items.

```css
flex.item {
	flex-basis: 100px;
	flex-grow: 0;
	flex-shrink: 1;
}
```

Here,
- `flex-grow` is turned off and `flex-shrink` is turned on.
- By default, it is going to set everything to the `flex-basis`. So 100px, and it’s not going to grow to fill the space, but it is going to shrink beyond the `flex-basis` size until you reach the minimum width.
- This is the default setting of the flex box items.

```css
flex.item {
	flex-basis: 100px;
	flex-grow: 1;
	flex-shrink: 1;
}
```

Here,
- `flex-grow` is turned on and `flex-shrink` is turned on.
- Here, the `flex-basis` will be completely ignored.
- The flex items will grow to the max-width and shrink to the min-width.

Default for `flex-basis` is `auto`. It’s going to give more `flex-basis` to the items with more content.

If you want all items to have equal width, the simply turn off flex-basis by setting it to 0.

Shorthand for above is: 

```css
flex.item {
	<!-- flex: flex-grow flex-shrink flex-basis -->
	flex: 1 1 0;
}
```

To shorten this further.

```css
flex.item {
	flex: 1;
}
```