## What Is Java?

Java is a class-based, object-oriented programming language.

Java is intended to let application developers **write once, and run anywhere (WORA)**, meaning that compiled Java code can run on all platforms that support Java without the need for recompilation.

Java is widely used for developing applications for desktop, web, and mobile devices.

Java is known for its *simplicity, robustness, and security features*, making it a popular choice for enterprise-level applications.

Java was developed by **James Gosling** at **Sun Microsystem Inc** in the year and later acquired by Oracle Corporation.

## How It Works?

There are three execution phases of a program :-

1. Create a text file, write source code, and save it with a *.java* extension.
2. The compilation (conversion of source code to bytecode i.e., binary files) of the source code is done by the *javac* compiler which is a primary Java compiler included in the *Java Development Kit JDK)*. For every, class in the java source code a binary file will be created by the javac compiler. These binary files will have the extension *.class*. Bytecode or binary files are not directly understandable by your computer. Reason being that java uses the idea of what we call *Java Virtual Machine (JVM)*. JVM is a complete simulation of a computer. The reason we are simulating a computer within our computer using JVM is so that we can provide JVMs for different platforms, different kinds of computers, and different machine architectures. That JVM can then run any class file without change. This make java *platform independent*.
3. JVM executes(runs) the bytecode generated by the javac compiler. When you install the *Java Runtime Environment (JRE)*, it sets up, creates and runs the JVM.