**CSS Selectors** helps us choose where to apply our CSS.

Types of CSS Selectors:
1. **[[#Element Selector]]**
2. **[[#Class Selector]]**
3. **[[#ID Selector]]**
4. **[[#Attribute Selector]]**
5. **[[#Universal Selector]]**
## Element Selector

**Element Selector** selects a particular HTML tag and applies styling to all occurrences of that HTML tag.

Element selector looks like this:

```html
<h2>Red</h2>
<h2>Blue</h2>
<h2>Green</h2>
```

```css
h2 {
	color: blue;
}
```

Here,
- `h2` is an element selector.
- This will target all `h2` elements in the HTML document and set its text color to blue.

## Class Selector

The class selector requires a special symbol, which is the dot (.), followed by the name of the class.

`class` is a global attribute that we can add to any HTML element. This attribute is all about grouping elements together into a single class. So that you can apply the same styling to all these elements.

Class selector looks like this:

```html
<h2 class="red-text">Red</h2>
<h2>Green</h2>
<p class="red-text">Blue</p>
```

```css
.red-text {
	color:red;
}
```

Here,
- Both elements `h2` and `p`, that have their `class` attribute set to `red-text` will have their text color styled to red.

## ID Selector

The ID selector requires a special symbol, which is the pound (#), followed by the name of the ID.

ID selector looks like this:

```html
<h2 id="main">Red</h2>
<h2>Green</h2>
<p class="red-text">Blue</p>
```

```css
#main {
	color:red;
}
```

Class selector can be applied to many elements, where the ID selector  should be applied to only one element in a single HTML file.

## Attribute Selector

Another way to select parts of your HTML to apply styling is to use the attribute selector.

Attribute selector can be used to select elements with a particular attribute or particular attribute value.

Attribute selector looks like this:

```html
<p draggable="true">Drag me</p>
<p>Don't drag me</p>
<p>Don't drag me</p>
```

```css
p[draggable] {
	color:red;
}
```

Here,
- `p` is the paragraph element.
- `draggable` is the attribute of paragraph element. Attributes are enclosed within a set of square brackets ([]). This selector will select all the paragraph element with an attribute `draggable` and apply styling to it.

Select elements by attribute value.

```html
<p draggable="true">Drag me</p>
<p draggable="false">Don't drag me</p>
<p draggable="false">Don't drag me</p>
```

```css
p[draggable="false"] {
	color:red;
}
```

## Universal Selector

