There are four different values for the `position` property:
- [[#Static Position]]
- [[#Relative Position]]
- [[#Absolute Position]]
- [[#Fixed Position]]

## Static Position

By default, every element has **static** positioning.

This means that each item flows as they would in our HTML.

For example,
```css
div {
	position: static;
	left: 50px;
	top: 50px;
}
```

Here,
- Both `left` and `top` properties will be ignored because the div element is positioned statically.

## Relative Position

In relative position, the item gets positioned relative to its default position.

For example,
```css
div {
	position: relative;
	left: 50px;
	top: 50px;
}
```

Here,
- `div` element will be pushed 50px to the left and 50px from the top relative to its original position.

## Absolute Position

In absolute position, the item gets positioned relative to the nearest position ancestor or top left corner of the webpage.

For example,
```css
div.parent {
	position: relative;
	left: 50px;
	top: 50px;
}
div.child {
	position: absolute;
	left: 50px;
	top: 50px;	
}
```

Here,
- `div.parent` ancestor must be positioned relatively.
- `div.child` descendant must be positioned relatively to the nearest ancestor i.e., `div.parent.

### Z-index

This determines which element goes on top in the z-axis.

For example,
```css
div.parent {
	position: relative;
	left: 50px;
	top: 50px;
}
div.child {
	position: absolute;
	left: 50px;
	top: 50px;
	z-index: -1;	
}
```

Here,
- `div.child` will be positioned below `div.parent` because the `z-index` has been set to negative.

## Fixed Position

In fixed position, the item gets positioned relative to the top left corner of the browser window.

For example,
```css
div {
	position: fixed;
	left: 50px;
	top: 50px;
}
```

Here,
- `div` element will fixed relative to the browser window. Even if you scroll down it would be visible.