Each element in an HTML file is a box. 

## `width` and `height`

You can change the dimension of these boxes such as width and height.

For example,
```css
h1 {
	width: 600px;
	height: 600px;
}
```

You can also set `height` and `width` as percentages.

For example,
```css
h1 {
	width: 100%;
}
```

This will take the entire width of the website.

## `border`

You can also set the border for each of the HTML element. If every element in an HTML file is a box, then this would be the border of the box

For example,
```css
h1 {
	border: 10px solid black;
}
```

Here,
- `10px` is the thickness of the border.
- `solid` is the style of the border. Other values include `dashed.
- `black` is the color of the border.

Remember that the height and width of your box does not change regardless of how you change the border.

Once you’ve specified the border you can modify the border like this:
```css
h1 {
	border: 10px solid black;
	border-top: 0px;
}
```

Here,
- `border-top` sets the thickness of the top border to `0px`.

`border-width` works similarly to how the `border` property works:
```css
h1 {
	border: 30px solid black;
	border-width: 0px 10px 20px 30px;
}
```

Here,
- `border-width` sets the border width in clockwise direction.
- If `border-width: 20px 30px` i.e., only two values. Then top and bottom is set to `20px` and left and right is set to `30px`.

## `padding`

Setting padding will push the border by some value.

For example,
```css
h1 {
	padding: 20px;
}
```

Remember that the height and width of your box does not change regardless of how you much padding you add.

Padding adds space between the element and the border.

## `margin`

Margin is the part outside the border.

For example,
```css
h1 {
	margin: 20px;
}
```

It’s the space between border of two element.