**Font properties** are used to change the appearance of the text.

Some font properties we’ve seen:
- `color` property sets the text color.
- `font-weight` property sets how heavy the text is.
- `font-size` property sets the size of the text.
- `font-family` property sets the typeface.

## `font-size` 

We can change the size of a font by using the `font-size` property.

For example,
```css
h1 {
	font-size: 20px;
}
```

Translation of `font-size` values:
- `1px` = `1/96th inch` = `0.26 mm`
- `1pt` = `1/72nd inch` = `0.35 mm`
- `1em` = 100% of parent. If parent is `20px` and child is `2em`, then child would be `40px`. This is the relative size.
- `1rem` = 100% of root. This is the absolute size. Root element is `html`.

where,
- `px` is pixel.
- `pt` is point.
- `em` is full width of letter ‘m’.

It is recommended to use `rem`, because that is the more consistent way of changing the sizing.

You can also use named font size like, 

```css
html {
	font-size: xx-large;
}
```

## `font-weight`

We can change how heavy the font is by using the `font-weight` property.

For example,
```css
h1 {
	font-weight: bold;
}
```

Other ways to change `font-weight`:
- Keywords: `normal bold`
- Relative to Parent: `lighter` or `bolder`. `lighter` deducts 100 from parent and `bolder` adds 100 to parent.
- Number: 100-900. Where 100 is light and 900 is bold.

## `font-family`

This determines what you want your text to look like.

For example,
```css
h1 {
	font-family: Helvetica, sans-serif;
}
```

Here,
- `sans-serif` is the generic font typeface. If `Helvetica` is not available, then we use the generic font typeface.
- In `sans-serif` all the edges are pretty much at right angles.
- In `serif` all the feet have little decoration at the edges.
- If a `font-family` has many words in it, then use double quotes to enclose it. For example, “Times New Roman”.

To get fonts, go [here](https://fonts.google.com/).

## `text-align`

This property is used to align the text.

For example,
```css
h1 {
	text-align: center;
}
```

Other values for `text-align` property,
- `left`
- `right`
- `start`
- `end`