The container that contains all the items is called the **Grid container**.

The items that are placed inside the grid are called **Grid items**.

The rows and columns that are created on creating a grid are collectively called as **Tracks** i.e., Row Tracks and Column Tracks.

Small units that are created within the intersection of these tracks are called as **Grid cells**. Grid cells are the smallest unit in a grid.

Multiple grid cells can be used to create grid items.

Lines that separate tracks are called as **Grid lines**. We have both horizontal and vertical grid lines. You can control these grid lines by using the `gap` property.

```html
<div class="container">
	<div class="item cowboy">🤠</div>
	<div class="item astronaut">👩‍🚀</div>
	<div class="item book">📖</div>
</div>
```

```css
.container {
	height: 100vh;
	display: grid;
	gap: 3 rem;
	grid-template-rows: 1fr 1fr 1.5fr;
	grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr;
}
```

## Grid-Column

Now, I want the cowboy div to span 2 columns.

```css
.cowboy {
	background-color: #00B9FF;
	grid-column: span 2;
}
```

The above is a shorthand for:

```css
.cowboy {
	background-color: #00B9FF;
	grid-column-start: 1;
	grid-column-end: 3;
}
```

Leftmost value of the `grid-column` is 1 and the rightmost value of the `grid-column` is -1.

The above can also be written as,

```css
.cowboy {
	background-color: #00B9FF;
	grid-column-start: 3;
	grid-column-end: 1;
}
```

## Grid-Row

This allows your grid items to span multiple rows or grid cells.

## Order

Each of the grid items inside a grid container by default have an order of 0.

Now, I want the astronaut div to be ordered after the book div and below the cowboy div spanning 2 columns.

```css
.astronaut {
	background-color: #03989E;
	order: 1;
	grid-column: span 2;
}
```

or

```css
.astronaut {
	background-color: #03989E;
	grid-column-start: 1;
	grid-column-end: 3;
	grid-row-start: 2;
	grid-row-end: 3;
}
```

or

```css
.astronaut {
	background-color: #03989E;
	/*  row-start / column-start / row-end / column-end  */
	grid-area: 2 / 1 / 3 / 3;
}
```

If you use `grid-area` on a particular item, then you have to use it on every other item as well.

## Overlay Grid Items

When we are using hex codes, the first 6 characters correspond to the color.

<center><b>#E5833180</b></center>
Here,
- `E5` corresponds to the degree of red.
- `83` corresponds to the degree of green.
- `31` corresponds to the degree of blue.
- `80` corresponds to the degree of 