## What is Java?

Java is a **programming language** and a **platform**. Java is a high level, robust, object-oriented and secure programming language.

Java was developed by *Sun Microsystems* (which is now the subsidiary of Oracle) in the year 1995. *James Gosling* is known as the father of Java. Before Java, its name was *Oak*. Since Oak was already a registered company, so James Gosling and his team changed the name form Oak to Java.

> **Platform**: Any hardware or software requirement in which a program runs, is known as a platform. Since Java has a runtime environment (JRE) and API, it is called a platform.

## Types of Java Applications

There are mainly 4 types of applications that can be created using Java programming:

1. **Standalone Application**: It is also known as desktop application or window-based application. There are traditional software that we need to install on every machine. Example are media player, antivirus, etc. AWT and Swing are used in Java for creating standalone application.
2. **Web Application**: An application that runs on the server side and creates a dynamic webpage is called a web application. Currently, Servlet, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, etc. technologies are used for creating web applications in Java.
3. **Enterprise Application**: An application that is distributed in nature, such as banking application, etc. is called an enterprise application. It has advantage like high-level security, load balancing, and clustering. In Java, EJB is used for creating enterprise applications.
4. **Mobile Application**: An application which is created for mobile devices is called a mobile application. Currently, Android and Java ME are used for creating mobile applications.