A list of the most important features of the Java language are:
1. *[[#Simple]]*
2. *[[#Object-Oriented]]*
3. *[[#Portable]]*
4. *[[#Platform Independent]]*
5. *[[#Secured]]*
6. *[[#Robust]]*
7. *[[#Architecture Neutral]]*
8. *[[#High Performance]]*
9. *[[#Multithreaded]]*
10. *[[#Distributed]]*
11. *[[#Dynamic]]*

## Simple

According to Sun Microsystem, Java language is a simple programming language because:
- Java syntax is based on C++.
- Java has removed many complicated and rarely-used features, for example, explicit pointers, operator overloading, etc.
- There is no need to remove unreferenced objects because their is Automatic Garbage Collection in Java.

## Object-Oriented

Java is an object-oriented programming language. Everything in Java is an object. Object-oriented means we organize our software as a combination of different types of objects that incorporate both data and behavior.

Object-oriented programming (OOPs) is a methodology that simplifies software development and maintenance by providing some rules.

Basic OOPs concepts are:
1. Object
2. Class
3. Inheritance
4. Polymorphism
5. Abstraction
6. Encapsulation

## Portable

Java is portable because it facilitates you to carry the Java bytecode to any platform. It doesn’t require any implementation.

## Platform Independent

Java is platform independent because it is different from other languages like C, C++ etc. which are compiled into platform specific machines while Java is *Write Once, Run Anywhere* language.

There are two types of platforms, software-based and hardware-based. Java provides a software-based platform.

The Java platform differs from most other platforms in the sense that it is a software-based platform that runs on top of other hardware-based platforms. It has two components:
1. Java Runtime Environment (JRE)
2. Application Programming Interface (API)

Java code can be executed on multiple platforms, for example, Windows, Linux, Sun Solaris, Mac/OS, etc. Java code is compiled by the compiler and converted into bytecode. This bytecode is platform-independent code because it can be run on multiple platforms, i.e., *Write Once, Run Anywhere (WORA)*.  

## Secured

Java is secured because:
- No explicit pointer.
- Java programs run inside a virtual machine sandbox.
- **Class loader**: Class loader in Java is a part of the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) which is used to load Java classes into the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) dynamically. It adds security by separating the package for the classes of the local file system from those imported from network sources.
- **Bytecode Verifier**: It checks the code fragments for illegal code that can violate access rights to objects.
- **Security Manager**: It determines what resources a class can access such as reading and writing to the local disk.

## Robust

Java is robust because:
- It uses storage memory management.
- There is a lack of pointer that avoid security problems.
- Java provides automatic garbage collection which runs on the JVM to get rid of objects which are not being used by the Java application anymore.
- There is exceptional handling and the type checking mechanism in Java

## Architecture Neutral

Java is architecture neutral because there is no implementation dependent features, for example, the size of the primitive types is fixed.

In C programming, `int` data type occupies 2 bytes of memory for 32-bit architecture and 4 bytes of memory for 64-bit architecture. However, it occupies 4 bytes of memory for both 32 and 64-bit architectures in Java.


## High Performance

Java is faster than other traditional interpreted programming languages because Java bytecode is “close” to native code. It is still a little bit slower than a compiled language (e.g., C++). Java is an interpreted language that is why it is slower than compiled languages, e.g., C, C++, etc.

## Multithreaded

A *thread* is like a separate program, executing concurrently. We can write Java program that deal with many tasks at once by defining multiple threads. The main advantage of multi-threading is that if doesn’t occupy memory for each thread. It shares a common memory area. Threads are important for multimedia, web application, etc.

## Distributed

Java is *distributed* because it facilitates users to create distributed application in Java. RMI and EJB are used for creating distributed applications. This feature of Java makes us able to access files by calling methods from any machine on the internet.

## Dynamic

Java is a dynamic language. It supports the dynamic loading of classes. It means classes are loaded on demand. It also supports functions from its native languages, i.e., C and C++.