## Program Boilerplate

In Java, our programs have to include some boilerplate code to function. This boilerplate, an example of which is shown below, for example tells the computer what your program is called. Below, the name of the program is `Example`. This name has to correspond to the name of the file that contains the source code (e.g. `Example.java`).

```java
public class Example {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
		// Write your program here
        System.out.println("Text to be printed");
    }
}
```

Execution of the program starts from the line that follows `public static void main(string[] args) {`, and ends at the closing curly bracket `}`. Commands are executed one line at a time.

The line "// Write your program here" is a _line comment_, and the computer will ignore it when executing the program.

## Running the Program

When a program is run, the source code is first compiled into Java bytecode. This compilation process is done by Java's compiler, which itself is a program. Following that, the program gets executed, meaning the commands are executed one-by-one by a Java-interpreter that is able to read Java bytecode.

This compile process affects how and when errors occur. When a program is compiled before execution, the compiler can search for errors in it. This also affects the hints provided by the IDE, and in this way, the programmer can receive immediate feedback on any errors.

he IDE both compiles and executes the program with just one press of a button. However, the programming environment compiles the program continuously, so it can report errors.

## Printing Multiple Lines

Programs are constructed command-by-command, where each command is placed on a new line. In the example below, the command `System.out.println` appears twice, which means that two print commands are being executed in the program.

```java
public class Ohjelma {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello world!");
        System.out.println("... and the universe!");
    }
}
```

The program above will print:

Sample output

```Output
Hello world! 
... and the universe!
```

### "`sout`"

>Writing the command `System.out.println("...")` can be taxing. In NetBeans, try to write **`sout`** on blank line (within main) and press tab (the key left to q). What happens? This shortcut may save you a lot of time in the future.

## Terminology and Code Comments

### Command parameters

The information to be printed by the print command, i.e. its **parameters**, are passed to it by placing them inside the parentheses `()` that follow the command. For example, passing `Hi` as a parameter to the `System.out.println` command is done like this: `System.out.println("Hi")`.

### Semicolon Separates Commands

Commands are separated with a semicolon `;`. We could, if we wanted to, write almost everything on a single line. However, that would be difficult to understand.

```java
System.out.println("Hello "); System.out.println("world"); System.out.println("!\n");
```

```Output
Hello world !
```

Although the previous example works, it's important to be considerate of other programmers (and your future self!) and to use line breaks. That way, anyone reading the program knows that each line does only a single concrete thing.

### Comments

Source code can be commented to clarify it or to add notes. There are two ways to do this.

- Single-line comments are marked with two slashes `//`. Everything following them on the same line is interpreted as a comment.
    
- Multi-line comments are marked with a slash and an asterisk `/*`, and closed with an asterisk followed by a slash `*/`. Everything between them is interpreted as a comment.
    

Below is an example of a program where both are used.

```java
public class Comments {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        // Printing
        System.out.println("Text to print");
        System.out.println("More text to print!");
        /* Next:
        - more on printing
        - more practice
        - variables
        - ...
        */
        System.out.println("Some other text to print");
        // System.out.println("Trying stuff out")
    }
}
```

The last line of the example shows a particularly handy use-case for comments. Code that has been written does not need to be deleted to try out something else.