Input refers to text written by the user read by the program. Input is always read as a string. For reading input, we use the `Scanner` tool that comes with Java. The tool can be imported for use in a program by adding the command `import java.util.Scanner;` before the beginning of the main program's frame (`public class` ...). The tool itself is created with `Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);`.

```java
import java.util.Scanner;

public class Program {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);

        // We can now use the scanner tool.
        // This tool is used to read input.
    }
}
```

Below is an example of a program which asks for user input, reads the string entered by the user, and then prints it.

```java
// Introduce the scanner tool used for reading user input
import java.util.Scanner;

public class Program {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        // Create a tool for reading user input and name it scanner
        Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);

        // Print "Write a message: "
        System.out.println("Write a message: ");

        // Read the string written by the user, and assign it
        // to program memory "String message = (string that was given as input)"
        String message = scanner.nextLine();

        // Print the message written by the user
        System.out.println(message);
    }
}
```

More precisely, input is read with the `scanner` tool's `nextLine()` method. The call `scanner.nextLine()` is left waiting for the user to write something. When user writes something and presses enter, the provided string is assigned to a **string variable** (in this instance `message`). The program is then able to reference the variable `message` later on — in the example above, the variable `message` is referenced in the print command.

## Fundamentals of Strings

In programming we refer to "strings" rather than "text". The term "string" is shorthand for "string of characters" which describes how the computer sees text on a more fundamental level: as a sequence of individual characters.

We've so far used strings in two ways. When practicing the print command, we passed the string to be printed to the print command in quotation marks, and when practicing reading input, we saved the string we read to a variable.

In practice, variables are named containers that contain information of some specified type and have a name. A string variable is declared in a program by stating the type of the variable (`String`) and its name (`myString`, for instance). Typically a variable is also assigned a value during its declaration. You can assign a value by following the declaration with an equals sign followed by the value and a semicolon.

A string variable called `message` that is assigned the value "Hello world!" is declared like this:

```java
String message = "Hello world!";
```

When a variable is created, a specific container is made available within the program, the contents of which can later be referenced. Variables are referenced by their name. For instance, creating and printing a string variable is done as shown below:

```java
String message = "Hello world!";
System.out.println(message);
```

```Output
Hello world!
```

A string enclosed in a programming language's quotation marks is called a "string literal", i.e., a string with a specified value. A common programming mistake is trying to put quotation marks around variable names. If there were quotation marks around the string variable `message`, the program would print the text "message" instead of the "Hello world!" text held by the `message` variable.

```java
String message = "Hello world!";
System.out.println("message");
```

```Output
message
```

### Concatenation - Joining Strings Together

The string to be printed can be formed from multiple strings using the `+` operator. For example, the program below prints "Hello world!" on one line.

```java
public class Program {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello " + "world!");
    }
}
```

The same method can be used to join a string literal and the value of a string variable.

```java
public class Program {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        String message = "Hello world!";

        System.out.println(message + " ... and the universe!");
    }
}
```

```Output
Hello world! ... and the universe!
```

We can do the same with any number of strings.

```java
public class Program {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        String start = "My name is ";
        String end = ", James Bond";

        System.out.println(start + "Bond" + end);
    }
}
```

```Output
My name is Bond, James Bond
```